perf-tuning: add wrong-index-solution (#3213)
pingcap/docs: wrong-index-solution.md

---
title: Wrong Index Solution
summary: Learn how to solve the wrong index issue.
category: performance
---

# Wrong Index Solution

If you find that the execution speed of some query does not reach the expectation, it might be caused by the wrong usage of indexes.

You can first view the [health state of tables](/statistics.md#health-state-of-tables) in the statistics, and then solve this issue according to the different health states.

## Low health state

The low health state means TiDB has not performed the`ANALYZE` statement for a long time. You can update the statistics by running the `ANALYZE` command. After the update, if the wrong usage of indexes still persists, refer to the next section.

## Near 100% health state

The near 100% health state suggests that the `ANALYZE` statement is just completed or was completed a short time ago. In this case, the wrong index issue might be related to TiDB's estimation logic for the number of rows.

For equivalence queries, the cause might be [Count-Min Sketch](/statistics.md#count-min-sketch). You can check whether Count-Min Sketch is the cause and take corresponding solutions. 

> If the cause above does not apply to your problem, you can force-select indexes by executing `USE_INDEX` or `use index` (see [USE_INDEX](/optimizer-hints.md#use_indext1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name-) for details). In addition, you can also non-intrusively change the query behavior by using [SQL Plan Management](/sql-plan-management.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the cause above does not apply to your problem, you can force-select indexes by using the `USE_INDEX` or `use index` optimzer hint (see [USE_INDEX](/optimizer-hints.md#use_indext1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name-) for details). Also, you can change the query behavior by using [SQL Plan Management](/sql-plan-management.md) in a non-intrusive way.
```
